23 through 31, and I'm taking this passage to look at this evening.
If you're taking notes, I've titled the message A Prayer for Boldness.
A Prayer for Boldness.
The disciples in the first century are facing various aspects of persecution.
Really, what we're looking at here in Acts chapter four is the persecution was
beginning to build and rise, and of course, we find that it's in the eighth
chapter, really, when that persecution reaches a high point.
And we find that the the believers are
scattered around abroad and they go everywhere.
The Bible tells us preaching the word
and what a blessing that is to see how the gospel was going forward.
But as we look at this passage of Scripture, I'll deal with as we look at it,
really kind of in the middle of a bunch of things that are going on.
And I'll do my best to provide you with all of the backdrop so that we can
understand the prayer that is recorded for us.
In Acts chapter four, verses 23 through 31.
Not only do we read of the prayer, but we see how God answers the prayer.
I'm so thankful for the privilege of prayer.
I'm so thankful that God hears and answers prayer.
We often speak of that truth and we often use that phraseology.
But we ought never
get over the fact that the God of the universe hears me singularly as I pray.
I mean, just wrap your mind around that for a moment.
That little old me that we get to pray
to the creator God and he hears us and he answers us.
It's amazing.
And what a joy to understand the privilege of prayer that is ours.
And we find in the text of Scripture, the Bible says in verse number 23,
I'm going to read the text and then I'll give you the backdrop and we'll get
into the message this evening, but the Bible says and being let go.
They speaking of the disciples,
these, of course, that are specifically mentioned were those that were dealing
with the persecution, Peter and John in that scenario.
And we'll look at that in just a moment.
But the Bible says they went to their own
company and reported all that the chief priest and elders had said unto them.
And they threatened them is what happened.
And we'll notice that it says in verse 24.
And when they heard that notice what it says in verse 24,
they lifted up their voice to God with one accord.
And said, and here's the recorded prayer, Lord, thou art God.
Which has made heaven and earth and the sea and all that in them is.
That's a good way to start a prayer, is it not?
I mean, just right away, get into the spirit of worship,
understanding who he is, understanding who it is that we're praying to.
Remember, when Jesus was giving that model prayer, it's not the Lord's prayer.
It's the model prayer.
When he said, when you pray, pray like this.
Our father, which art in heaven, hallowed be thy name.
He's holy. He's God.
And we enter into his presence with a measure of reverence.
And we find this worship and they come and they say, Lord, thou art God.
And then they speak about the fact that he's creator God, which has made heaven
and earth and the sea and all that in them is who by the mouth of thy servant
David has said, why did the heathen rage and the people imagine vain things?
The kings of the earth stood up and the
rulers were gathered together against the Lord and against his Christ for of a truth
against the holy thy holy child, Jesus, whom thou hast anointed.
Both Herod and Pontius Pilate with the Gentiles and the people of Israel were
gathered together for to do whatsoever thy hand and thy counsel determined
before to be done in a great to see the sovereignty of God, says in verse 29.
And now, Lord, behold their threatenings and grant unto thy servants that with all
boldness they may speak thy word by stretching forth thine hand to heal
signs and wonders may be done by the name of thy holy child, Jesus.
Notice the Bible says in verse 31.
And when they had prayed,
the place was shaken where they were assembled together.
They were all filled with the Holy Ghost
and they spake the word of God with boldness.
As we look at the passage of Scripture and we see what's taking place.
And I want you to just consider with me as we kind of go through the passage this
evening, if you're taking notes, number one, notice what prompted their prayer.
What prompted their prayer?
What led them to pray this prayer that's recorded for us in this passage of
Scripture? Well, again, we find contextually that in Acts chapter
number three, there was a great miracle that was performed.
You'll recall with me that this miracle
was when Peter and John were on the way to the temple.
And as they're there, the Bible says that there was a man that was
begging at the gate, beautiful.
And he was asking alms to all that were entering in.
And the Bible tells us that this man was
above 40 years old to whom this miracle took place on.
And the Bible says that Peter in verse
number four, fastening his eyes upon him with John said, look on us.
And he gave heed unto them, expecting to receive something of them.
And Peter said, silver and gold have I none.
But such as I have give I thee in the name of Jesus Christ of Nazareth.
Rise up and walk.
And he took him by the right hand and lifted him up and immediately his feet
and ankle bones received strength and he leaping up, stood and walked and entered
with them into the temple, walking and leaping and praising God.
Can you imagine?
The Bible says in verse nine and all
the people saw him walking and praising God, and they knew it was him notice in
verse 10, and they knew that it was him by excuse me, that it was he which sat for
alms at the beautiful gate of the temple and they were filled with wonder and
amazement at that which had happened unto him.
You would be, too.
Amen. You knew this fellow was over here
begging and he was not able to walk.
And now you see that he's up and he's leaping and he's praising God and he's
walking and you would be filled with amazement and wonder as well.
We find that this notable miracle takes place in Acts chapter number three,
and the Bible tells us that there were a great host of people that assembled
together, they were greatly wondering, they come to the porch that is called
Solomon's Porch, and we find that Peter sees this group of people gathered
together and he begins to preach.
And I'm so thankful that the Bible records the the preaching of Peter,
of course, of others that are contained in the book of Acts, the messages
that they preach.
But you see in the early portions of the book of Acts, several messages that Peter
preaches, and I love his boldness and his directness and how he stands up and just
gives the truth of the word of God.
And we find that he's preaching and you
find that the message is not well received by everyone.
There are some, of course, that are noticing what's taking place and there
are some that are going to respond and just certainly have
wonder of all that's been said and all that they've seen.
And they're going to trust.
The Bible tells us in verse number four
of chapter number four, how be it many of them which heard the word believed.
And the number of the men was about five thousand.
That's a lot of people.
We often speak about Pentecost where there were three thousand.
Right.
And then we find here in Acts chapter four that there are five thousand.
And before long, you'll see that the numbers are not recorded with numeric
characters, but rather by saying a multitude and multitudes were saved.
And we find that this was a great opportunity.
But there were religious leaders in this day that were not very excited about all
that was taking up taking place.
And these religious leaders show up and the persecution begins.
Notice I read verse four of chapter four where you see about the people that
believe, but notice in verse number one, it says, as they speak into the people,
the priest and the captain of the temple and the Sadducees came upon them being
grieved that they taught the people and preached through Jesus the resurrection
from the dead and they laid hands on them and put them in hold until the next day.
We find that after they're there and they're being put in hold,
that the rulers come in verse number five, that there are rulers, elders,
scribes, the anise, the high priest and Caiaphas and John Alexander.
All of these folks come according to verse number six.
And they then set them in the midst.
And they say this in verse number seven,
by what power or by what name have you done this?
And I'm so thankful that Peter did not stand up and say it's through our own power.
See, Peter knew that it was not in himself.
He knew that it was not his power.
He knew that it was not anything that that was in of himself,
that it was through the power of the name of Jesus.
And we find that Peter being filled with the Holy Ghost,
he says to them in verse number eight of chapter four,
ye rulers of the people and elders of Israel, if we this day be examined
of the good deed done to the impotent man.
by what means he has made whole, be it known unto you all,
and to all the people of Israel, that by the name of Jesus Christ of Nazareth,
whom ye crucified, whom God raised from the dead,
even by him doth this man stand here before you whole."
I mean, he's got boldness, amen? He's preaching.
And he's standing before these religious leaders.
He's standing before these that had the power to hold them in ward,
according to what we read already.
In verse number three, they put them in ward until the next day,
put them in hold, and we find that Peter is preaching,
and we find that he uses that verse that we so often quote.
In verse number 12,
"'Neither is there salvation in any other,
for there's none other name under heaven given among men,
whereby we must be saved.'"
I mean, he's confronting these religious leaders with their need for Christ.
You know what's possible to be religious and be lost?
Nicodemus was in that situation.
He came to Jesus by night in John chapter number three,
and he was religious, but Jesus said,
"'Ye must be born again, ye must be born again.'"
And we find here that Peter has preached with boldness.
Notice the observation of the religious leaders in verse 13.
They saw the boldness of Peter and John
and perceived that they were unlearned and ignorant men.
They marveled.
Notice what it says.
They took knowledge of them that they had been with Jesus.
Man, that's a powerful statement.
They had been with Jesus.
You know, when we spend time with the Lord,
it shows in our lives.
It really does.
These men, Peter and John,
they had walked with the Lord Jesus Christ.
They had been taught.
During those three and a half or so years of earthly ministry,
we find that Peter and John were in that inner circle,
if you will, of the disciples.
And they were there at the Mount of Transfiguration.
I mean, they got to see God work.
They saw the miracles.
They were eyewitnesses of these things.
And we find here that these men, these religious leaders,
they perceived that they were unlearned and ignorant men,
but then they took knowledge of them that they had been with Jesus.
Makes a huge difference.
It says,
Beholding the man which was healed standing with them,
they could say nothing against it.
Now, see the scene.
These religious leaders are beside themselves.
They, look, we mentioned already that in verse number six,
it says that Annas the high priest and Caiaphas and John,
these other folks are all there.
They're the same ones that put Jesus to death.
That's why Peter says,
Whom ye crucified, but God raised from the dead.
This was not long after the death,
the crucifixion and the resurrection of Jesus Christ.
We know that Acts 1 records His ascension,
but not much time has passed.
And we find here that He, Peter, is standing before them.
And these religious leaders, they hate God.
They hate all that's taking place.
They put Jesus to death.
And they want to silence Peter and John.
But there's this guy standing there that was lame,
that was now able to walk.
And they were really in a situation
because they say in verse number 16,
What shall we do to these men?
For that indeed a notable miracle hath been done
by them is manifest to all that dwell in Jerusalem,
and we cannot deny it.
I love it when God works.
And He works in such a way that there's no possibility
that it can be explained by any natural causes,
anything of our own power and our own strength
and our own might.
No, we find that these religious leaders,
they want to silence Peter and John.
They want to silence the disciples
from going forth and preaching.
But yet, they've acknowledged
that there's this notable miracle that's taking place,
and they can't deny it.
It's not like they could tell all of the people in Jerusalem
that this thing didn't really happen,
because all the people in Jerusalem saw it.
And they greatly wondered.
And they heard Peter preach.
The Bible tells us, as we begin to understand what led,
remember, we're talking about what prompted their prayer.
It's the miracle of chapter 3.
It's the persecution of chapter 4.
Notice it says in verse 17,
but that it spread no further among the people.
So they didn't want to have anybody else
be influenced by the preaching of the Word of God.
They didn't want more people being saved.
And it says this,
let us straightly threaten them
that they speak henceforth to no man in this name.
And it tells us in verse number 18,
that they called them and commanded them
not to speak at all nor teach in the name of Jesus.
Now, I can't imagine being told that.
I hope, I pray that in my lifetime, in your lifetime,
that we'd never be in this situation
that these disciples are in.
The Bible says that Peter and John answered in verse 19
and said unto them,
whether it be right in the sight of God
to hearken unto you more than unto God,
judge ye.
4, verse 20,
we cannot but speak the things which we have seen and heard.
You'll know that in chapter 5,
when they're facing more persecution
and they're dealing with all of those things,
they say in verse 28 of chapter 5,
those same religious leaders,
they said, did not we straightly command you
that you should not teach in this name?
And behold, you have filled Jerusalem with your doctrine
and intend to bring this man's blood upon us.
Isn't that a great testimony?
Hey, you don't speak in his name.
And then you say, you filled Jerusalem with his doctrine.
Praise the Lord.
But Peter in that verse and the others that were with him
answered and said, we ought to obey God rather than men.
Here in chapter 4,
he says, we cannot but speak the things
which we have seen and heard.
So when they had further threatened them,
they let them go,
finding nothing how they might punish them
because of the people.
For all men glorified God for that which was done.
For the man was about 40 years old
on whom this miracle of healing was showed.
Then we get to verse number 23,
the prayer that we're dealing with this evening,
a prayer for boldness.
And being let go, they went to their own company.
They come back, they begin to report.
Notice verse 24.
And when they heard that, what did they hear?
Well, it says in verse number 23,
and reported all that the chief priest
and elders had said unto them.
They go back to their company
and they say, here's what they said.
They said that we can't speak any longer
in the name of Jesus.
We can't teach or preach in his name.
This was the report that was brought back.
And so we see what prompted their prayer
was all that backdrop
that we've just looked through
and we see the persecution.
And we notice that the Bible says
in verse number 13,
now when they saw the boldness of Peter and John,
I've already made note
that when Peter being filled with the Holy Ghost
in verse number eight
and down through verse number 12,
when he gives them an answer
that they've requested,
they ask a question,
he provides an answer.
He's speaking with boldness.
We find that they go to God in prayer.
We see what prompted their prayer.
I noticed as I study the prayer
that is given to us here,
I noticed that the prayer
reveals some things to us.
I believe that it reveals to us
that they are depending upon the Lord.
There's no self-dependence.
There's God dependence.
The reality is that we need God.
We need Him.
Every moment of every day,
we need God.
He said in John 15,
without Me, ye can do nothing.
That's Bible.
And we find here
that these immediately respond in prayer.
They immediately lift up their voice to God
with one accord.
They are revealing to me
as I look at the passage of Scripture
that they are depending upon God.
They did not immediately set a date
for a conference
where they would sit around a round table
and figure out what they were going to do
and how they were going to scheme
and what plan they were going to devise.
No, they go to God in prayer.
They seek the face of God.
I believe that prayer is
one of the greatest expressions
of our dependence upon the Lord.
When we pray as we ought,
we're revealing that we're depending upon Him.
We notice,
as I mentioned by way of introduction in verse 24,
that this prayer reveals to us
that they had an understanding of who God is.
I think this is important for us to understand.
See, our view of God
is of significant importance.
There are some that have a wrong view of God.
They do not understand the God of the Bible.
They don't understand what He's capable of doing.
The Bible tells us in Isaiah chapter 6
that Isaiah saw Him, God, high and lifted.
lifted up, that His train filled the temple,
He saw Him in all of His holiness.
We begin to consider the view that we have of God
and when we have a proper view of God,
when we understand who He is,
it causes us to have greater faith
and greater dependence upon Him.
See, these individuals, these disciples
in the early church,
they understood that He was the Creator God.
He spoke it all into existence.
Now certainly if He could say,
let there be light and there was light,
certainly if He could create everything out of nothing,
He could deal with these religious leaders.
Amen?
This was nothing for God.
Oh, it's beyond their ability.
It's beyond their ability to do something,
to change the hearts of these individuals,
but we find that they understand who God is.
I'm mindful of a verse that we've often referenced
from Psalm 121.
I will lift up mine eyes into the hills
from whence cometh my help.
My help cometh from the Lord
which made heaven and earth.
What a powerful truth.
I'm mindful of what the psalmist says
and we can read in Genesis 1
and you read repeatedly how the Bible says
that God said and it was so.
And we find that in Psalm 34,
the Bible says,
by the word of the Lord in verse 6,
where the heavens made and all the host of them
by the breath of His mouth,
for He spake, verse number 9,
and it was done, He commanded,
and it stood fast.
That's our God.
In Psalm 48, the psalmist is lifting up the Lord.
Great is the Lord and greatly to be praised.
And he's speaking about the greatness of God
and as he goes through that psalm,
and again, I made reference to this last week,
but we see that he's lifting up God
and speaking about the greatness
and he says at the end of the passage,
for this God is our God forever and ever.
He will be our guide even unto death.
Our God is great.
Our God is all powerful.
He is the Lord God omnipotent.
He revealed Himself to Abraham
as being El Shaddai,
the Lord God Almighty.
And just after He reveals Himself to Abraham
as being El Shaddai,
He then asks Abraham,
is anything too hard for the Lord?
See, God has revealed Himself to us in His Word.
I want you to think about the disciples.
I want you to think about what they had experienced
in their life and their understanding
of who God is
and their understanding of the power of God.
Think about Peter and John.
I mean, it was Peter and John
that saw great miracles.
It was Peter and John that participated
in the feeding of the 5,000,
the feeding of the 4,000.
It was Peter that,
John of course as well,
saw the Lord walking on the water,
but it was Peter that got out of the boat, remember?
And he walks on the water.
He said, Lord, if it be Thee, bid me come to Thee.
And Peter got out of the boat
and he began to walk on the water.
You say, but he didn't make it far.
He made it further than me
and further than you.
No one else got out of the boat.
Amen.
Peter had seen the Lord do some amazing things.
You know, in John 21,
the Bible tells us that Peter says,
I go a-fishing.
We can criticize Peter all day if we want.
But I'll tell you, I think we can relate to Peter.
Peter said, I go a-fishing.
They go fishing
and Jesus is there on the shore
and He says,
children,
did you catch anything?
And they said, no.
He said, cast your net on the right side.
And they did.
Man, they got a great host of fish.
I think it was probably the largest catch
of their time of being fishermen
for the Bible gives us the exact count
of how many fish it were.
But you find that they say,
no, we have nothing.
And they cast and the Bible says
that they were not able to draw
for the multitude of fishes.
And then it was John,
the disciple whom the Lord loved,
and this is how John referred to him.
And he said to Peter,
Peter, it is the Lord.
And what does Peter do?
He jumps out of the boat
and he swims to the shore.
See, these guys had seen the Lord work.
They knew what He was capable of doing.
Their prayer reveals to us
their dependence.
that they had an understanding
of who God is.
Their prayer reveals to us,
I believe, their own inability.
Notice in verse 29, it says,
Now, Lord, behold their threatenings
and grant unto Thy servants
that with all boldness
they may speak Thy Word.
They knew they had an understanding
that it was not within themselves.
They needed God to give them boldness.
I believe that they had an understanding
of the plan of God.
See you notice that here in verse 29,
the verse that I just read,
that their singular prayer request
was that God would give them boldness.
Grant unto Thy servants
that with all boldness
they may speak Thy Word.
Perhaps, if I were in the situation,
I would have prayed for deliverance.
And maybe you would have too.
Maybe you would have prayed
some type of prayer
with regard to these religious leaders
and that God would deal with them.
We find that they just simply
pray for boldness.
God, give us boldness to speak Thy Word.
See, it's interesting because
Jesus had warned them,
had given them the truth
that they would face opposition.
That they would encounter
those that would hate them
and oppose them
during their earthly ministry.
If you hold your place there in Acts 4,
I want you to see in John 15,
we mentioned earlier about the truth
in the beginning of the passage of Scripture.
Without Me, you can do nothing.
But we find that as Jesus continues
to give instruction to His disciples
before He would go to the cross of Calvary,
that He says to them in verse 18 of John 15,
if the world hates you,
you know that it hated Me
before it hated you.
If you were of the world,
the world would love His own.
Because you're not of the world,
but I have chosen you out of the world,
therefore the world hateth you.
Remember the word that I said unto you,
the servant is not greater than his Lord.
If they have persecuted Me,
they will also persecute you.
If they have kept My saying,
they will keep yours also.
Notice if you skip over to verse 1 of chapter 16,
these things have I spoken unto you
that you should not be offended.
They shall put you out of the synagogues, yea?
The time cometh that whosoever killeth you
will think that he doeth God's service.
And these things will they do unto you
because they have not known the Father nor Me.
But these things have I told you
that when the time shall come,
you may remember that I told you of them.
These things I said not unto you
at the beginning because I was with you.
He tells them He's going to go away,
but of course He tells them that He was going to send
the Comforter, the Holy Spirit of God.
We go back to Acts chapter 4,
and we notice that as we examine their prayer
that it reveals to us their dependence.
It reveals their understanding of who God is.
It reveals that they had an understanding,
an awareness of their own inability
and an understanding of what God's plan is.
God's plan is that His Word would go forth
unto all the world.
It's His plan.
And we are His witnesses.
Remember, that's what the disciples said.
That's what Peter and John said there in chapter 4
as we've read already in verse 20.
For we cannot but speak the things
which we have seen and heard.
So we find that they pray for boldness.
We've noticed as we've looked at this passage
what prompted their prayer.
We've noticed what their prayer reveals.
And now I want you to see how their prayer is answered.
I mentioned by way of introduction,
it's such a joy to know that our God hears
and answers prayer.
The Lord said to Solomon,
I have heard thy prayer.
2 Chronicles chapter number 7.
We've referenced that truth throughout the Scriptures
many times in which you see that God
would just reassure His people
of the fact that He hears us.
He hears us when we pray.
And as we look here and we notice
how this prayer is answered,
the Bible says in verse number 31,
and when they had prayed,
the place was shaken where they were assembled together.
They were all filled with the Holy Ghost.
And notice the last phrase of verse number 31,
when they spake the Word of God, how?
With boldness.
What did they pray for?
Lord, grant unto thy servants
that with all boldness
they may speak thy Word.
I'll tell you this evening,
what's prompted the message tonight
is a conversation I had with a ministry friend this week.
And as we were just speaking and chatting
about various things that are going on
in our world today and our society
and all that's taking place even here in America,
the comment was made,
we need boldness.
And immediately the thought
between me and this evangelist,
Brother Hummel is who it was,
immediately went to Acts 4.
Thinking about the situation
in which these disciples face,
I don't think it's the same situation
that we face today.
Though I...
I think it could be at some point in our lives.
We notice how these disciples,
they pray for boldness.
And I wonder, how often do I pray for boldness?
How often do we pray for boldness?
The reality is that no one's even made a threat
to me or to you probably.
No one's beaten us as we see
at the end of Acts 5
where they get beaten because of their
speaking the name of the Lord and preaching.
The Bible tells us in Acts 5,
then verse number 40 that to him they agreed.
That was to Gamaliel as he gave some information
with regard to what they would do.
And he says that they had called the apostles
and beaten them.
They commanded that they should not speak
in the name of Jesus and let them go.
The Bible tells us in verse 41,
they departed from the presence of the council
rejoicing that they were accounted worthy
to suffer shame for his name
and daily in the temple and every house
they cease not to teach and preach Jesus Christ.
Now if you follow verse 40 through 42,
you find that they were beaten
and then they were commanded not to speak.
They leave and they rejoice that they were beaten,
that they were accounted worthy
to suffer shame for his name's sake.
And then they daily in the temple
and in every house, what do they do?
They cease not to teach and preach Jesus Christ.
They had boldness.
They're filled with the Holy Spirit of God.
We see that in Acts 4 in verse number 8,
then Peter filled with the Holy Ghost, right?
And then they perceived,
they saw the boldness of Peter in verse 13.
We find in verse 29, they pray for boldness
and in verse number 31, the Bible says
that the place was shaken where they were assembled
and they were filled with the Holy Ghost
and they spake with the Word of God
or they spake the Word of God with boldness.
The Bible teaches that at the moment of salvation,
we are indwelled by the Spirit of God.
I'm very thankful for that teaching.
I dealt with it a little bit this morning in our message
and as we understand the truth
that we are indwelled by the Spirit of God
at the moment of salvation,
the Bible tells us that the Holy Spirit of God
is the earnest of our salvation.
Remember, it was Paul that said
that our bodies are the temple of the Holy Ghost,
which we have of God, which of course,
we understand there in 1 Corinthians 6,
the truth of what he's teaching with regard to surrender,
but we find that we're not always filled
with the Spirit of God.
We can be indwelled by the Spirit of God,
but not filled with the Spirit of God.
The indwelling of the Spirit of God,
really, if I could use this terminology,
would refer to how much of the Holy Spirit I have.
I have all the Holy Spirit I'm ever gonna have.
I was indwelled with the Spirit of God
at the moment of salvation.
But the filling of the Spirit of God
is how much of me does he have, right?
How much of me controls me
versus how much is filled with the Holy Spirit of God?
I've used the illustration before
that if I had a bottle of water,
and I have a bottle of water here,
and I have one that's completely full,
so I won't use that, but I have this one,
and that's not quite halfway full,
but it's close, probably 40%.
And if I wanna put some other drink in here,
I wanna put sweet tea in here,
because I like sweet tea,
I would want to empty this 40% of water
before I put the sweet tea in here.
I don't like my juice watered down.
I remember when the kids were little, right?
You water their juice down, you put half and half,
and man, that's disgusting.
I want the full, just give me the full thing, right?
I mean, give me all of it.
And so if I put sweet tea in here,
it's gonna water it down.
But in order for me to fill this with sweet tea,
I need to first empty the water.
If I'm gonna be filled with the Holy Spirit of God,
I must be emptied of self.
And we find that here in the passage of Scripture,
the Bible says that they were filled with the Holy Ghost,
and then they spake the word with boldness.
Remember, it's in Ephesians 5, in verse 18,
where the Bible says,
and be not drunk with wine, wherein his excess,
but be filled with the Spirit.
And it's a command that we are given
to be filled with the Spirit.
He gives us what the evidence of that filling is,
speaking to yourselves in psalms and hymns
and spiritual songs, singing and making melody
in your heart to the Lord,
giving thanks always for all things unto God and the Father
in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ,
submitting yourselves one to another in the fear of God.
A prayer for boldness.
We read in Acts 4,
this powerful prayer of the early church.
They were facing some difficulties.
In no way am I saying, suggesting to you this evening
that what we face is in like manner of what they face.
We face our own difficulties, our own challenges,
our own obstacles, our own oppositions,
our own adversities.
They exist.
But I wonder if we're praying for boldness.
It's easy for us to complain about the circumstances.
It's easy for us to devise a plan.
But oh, how we need to pray that God would work,
that God would give us boldness,
that God would fill us with His Spirit,
that we'd be emptied of self.
We notice this prayer was answered.
See, God delights in answering prayer.
He really does.
When we pray according to His will,
it was God's will that they speak the word
and that they speak it with boldness.
And they were praying in accord to the will of God.
And God answered.
This evening, I wanna challenge you,
challenge myself to pray for boldness.
That we would look at this passage of Scripture
and we see all of the historical setting
and we understand at a certain level
all that was taking place and these things
during the early church and this first century situation.
But oh, that God would help us in 2020
to pray a similar prayer.
God, Lord, You are God.
You're the creator.
You're in control of everything.
You're the redeemer, You're sovereign.
Lord, we need Your boldness.
We pray that You would grant us boldness,
that we would speak Your word
and how we would let the Lord have His way in our lives.
Father, we love You.
And we thank You so much for loving us.
We thank You for Your word
and the truth that's contained therein.
We thank You for the examples
of those that have gone before us.
We thank You for Peter and John
in this portion of Scripture.
We thank You for how they immediately respond
by seeking Your face in prayer.
What a pattern for us to follow,
how we're challenged by their behavior.
Lord, I pray You'd help us to have a proper view
of who You are, that we'd have that understanding
that You are God, the Lord God omnipotent,
that You reign, that You are King of kings,
Lord of lords, the great I am.
And God, we pray You'd fill us with Your power,
fill us with the Holy Spirit of God.
In Acts 1 and verse number eight,
but You shall receive power
after that the Holy Ghost has come upon You.
You shall be witnesses unto me,
both in Jerusalem and Judea, Samaria,
the uttermost part of the earth.
Oh God, I pray that You'd give us that power,
the filling of the Holy Spirit of God.
Help us to be emptied of self
and help us, Lord, to speak Thy word with boldness.
We pray that You'd have Your will and way
in each of our lives and we'll thank You for what You'll do
for it's in Christ's name we pray, amen.